---
title: "S. Panigrahy<sup>&dagger;</sup>, R. Sahu<sup>&dagger;</sup>, S. K. Reddy, D. Nayar, Structure, energetics and dynamics in crowded amino acid solutions: a molecular dynamics study. <i>Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics</i> 25, 5430–5442 (2023). (&dagger; = Equal contribution)"
display_title: "Structure, energetics and dynamics in crowded amino acid solutions: a molecular dynamics study"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/paper-title-number-7
year: 2023
image: '/images/d2cp04238j-f1_hi-res.jpg' # Path to the article image
paperurl: 'https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlehtml/2023/cp/d2cp04238j'
---

A comprehensive understanding of crowding effects on biomolecular processes necessitates investigating the bulk thermodynamic and kinetic properties of the solutions with an accurate molecular representation of the crowded milieu. Recent studies have reparameterized the non-bonded dispersion interaction of solutes to precisely model intermolecular interactions, which would circumvent artificial aggregation as shown by the original force-fields. However, the performance of this reparameterization is yet to be assessed for concentrated crowded solutions in terms of investigating the hydration shell structure, energetics and dynamics. In this study, we perform molecular dynamics simulations of crowded aqueous solutions of five zwitterionic neutral amino acids (Gly, Ala, Thr, Pro, and Ser), mimicking the molecular crowding environment, using a modified AMBER ff99SB-ILDN force-field. We systematically examine and show that the reproducibility of the osmotic coefficients, density, viscosity and self-diffusivity of amino acids improves using the modified force-field in crowded concentrations. The modified force-field also improves the structuring of the solute solvation shells, solute interaction energy and convergence of tails of radial distribution functions, indicating reduction in the artificial aggregation. Our results also indicate that the hydrogen bonding network of water weakens and water molecules anomalously diffuse at small time scales in the crowded solutions. These results underscore the significance of examining the solution properties and anomalous hydration behaviour of water in crowded solutions, which have implications in shaping the structure and dynamics of biomolecules. The findings also illustrate the improvement in predicting bulk solution properties using the modified force-field, thereby providing an approach towards accurate modeling of crowded molecular solutions.
